# NAME

yipedit.pl - Editor administration CGI script for Yip.

# SYNOPSIS

    /cgi-bin/yipedit.pl?class=types
    /cgi-bin/yipedit.pl?class=vars
    /cgi-bin/yipedit.pl?class=archives
    /cgi-bin/yipedit.pl?template=example

# DESCRIPTION

This is a CGI script for administration of Yip.  This particular CGI
script handles editing data types, template variables, archives, and
individual templates.  The client must have an authorization cookie to
use this script.

The GET request to this script must either have a `class` variable or
a `template` variable in the query string.  If there is a `class`
variable, then it must have a value of either `types` `vars` or
`archives`, indicating what class of data to edit.  If there is a
`template` variable, then its value is the name of the template to
edit, which must be a string of one to 31 ASCII alphanumerics and
underscores.  The template need not currently exist.

The GET request will provide a form containing a text field where you
can edit data and a hidden form field that stores what is being edited.
The following subsections will define exactly what data is edited in
each of the cases.

This script is also the POST request target of the form it provides in
the GET request.  The POST request will read the edited data and update
the database accordingly.  For `class` edits, all properties that are
defined within the edited JSON object will either be added or
overwritten.  For `template` edits, either an existing template is
changed or a new template is created.  This script never deletes records
from the database.  It is only able to add new records and edit existing
ones.

## Data type editing

When `class=types` is the parameter, then the edited data with will be
a text file containing JSON.  The top-level JSON entity is an object.
Properties of this JSON object have property names corresponding to data
types defined in the `rtype` table.  The values of each property are
JSON arrays of two elements, the first being a string holding the MIME
type for the data type, and the second being an integer storing the
cache handling code.  See the description of the `rtype` table in the
`createdb.pl` script for further details.

Note that deleting properties from the JSON object and then submitting
the edited JSON will **not** delete the corresponding data types.  This
script is only able to add new data types or edit existing ones.

## Template variable editing

When `class=vars` is the parameter, then the edited data with will be
a text file containing JSON.  The top-level JSON entity is an object.
Properties of this JSON object have property names corresponding to
template variables defined in the `vars` table.  The values of each
property are strings holding the value to set for the variable.  See the
description of the `vars` table in the `createdb.pl` script for
further details.

Note that deleting properties from the JSON object and then submitting
the edited JSON will **not** delete the corresponding template variables.
This script is only able to add new variables or edit existing ones.

## Archive editing

When `class=archives` is the parameter, then the edited data with will
be a text file containing JSON.  The top-level JSON entity is an object.
Properties of this JSON object have property names that are strings of
exactly six decimal digits indicating the UID of the archive represented
by the property.  The values of each property are JSON arrays of two
elements, the first being a string holding the display name of the
archive and the second being a timecode in `yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss` format
stored in a string indicating the lastest post date stored in the
archive. See the description of the `parc` table in the `createdb.pl`
script for further details.

Note that deleting properties from the JSON object and then submitting
the edited JSON will **not** delete the corresponding archive.  This
script is only able to add new archives or edit existing ones.

## Template editing

When `template=example` is the parameter, then the edited data will be
the text contents of the named template.  If no template with the given
name currently exists, the editor will start out blank.  There is also
a cache control field that determines caching behavior.  If set to -1,
then clients should never cache pages generated by this template
(`no-store` semantics).  If set to 0, then clients can cache pages, but
the cached pages are immediately stale (`no-cache` semantics).  If set
to a positive integer in range \[1, 31536000\], specifies the number of
seconds that cached pages remain fresh.

# AUTHOR

Noah Johnson, `noah.johnson@loupmail.com`

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2022 Multimedia Data Technology Inc.

MIT License:

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
